---
title: "Crash symbolication"
description: "How to upload Flutter debug symbols to Bugsee so that obfuscated Dart stack traces are resolved into readable function names and line numbers."
sidebar_position: 10
slug: "/sdk/flutter/symbolication"
---

## Debug Symbols
Debug symbols provide information that Bugsee uses to decipher stack traces generated by an application.

## When to Upload
With default settings, complete stack traces are available in your Dart error, out of the box, unless you use [```split-debug-info```](https://flutter.dev/docs/perf/app-size#reducing-app-size) and [```obfuscate```](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate). In those cases, you need to upload the debug information files generated by the flutter build, so Bugsee can show you proper stack traces.

We provide special Python script [symbols.py](https://download.bugsee.com/scripts/flutter/symbols.py?v=6) which you should use to upload the generated debug information files with. Note that you should execute that script within you project folder to let it properly find and handle required files.

You can use it as follows:

```bash
python3 symbols.py -t <your-application-token> -d <path-to-debug-symbols-folder>
```

```<path-to-debug-symbols-folder>``` must point to the directory where debug information symbols were placed with ```split-debug-info``` option.

By default, this script will automatically pick version from ```pubspec.yaml``` inside your project folder. If you want to specify your own version, you can do it with ```-v``` option as shown below.

```bash
python3 symbols.py -t <your-application-token> -d <path-to-debug-symbols> -v 1.2.3
```

For iOS, by default the script is treating the build outputs to be produced for standard application build. If you assembling an IPA, please specify ```-g``` option (build target) with ```ipa``` value. It's worth noting, that if IPA directory was not found, the script will fallback to standard build output.

```bash
python3 symbols.py -t <your-application-token> -d <path-to-debug-symbols> -g ipa
```

To properly symbolicate native crashes and errors, you will need to configure native debug information uploading as described in [iOS](/sdk/ios/symbolication/) and [Android](/sdk/android/issue-detection/crashes/) documentation.